docs/source/installation.md, before:

# 🧰 Installation

## 1. Ensemblify Python Package

It is **heavily** recommended to install the `ensemblify` Python package in a dedicated virtual environment.

You can create a new virtual environment using your favorite virtual environment manager. Examples shown will use `conda`. If you want to download `conda` you can do so through their [website](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html). We recommend [miniconda](https://www.anaconda.com/docs/getting-started/miniconda/install), a free minimal installer for `conda`.

To install the `ensemblify` Python package, you can follow these commands:

1. Get the `ensemblify` source code. To do this you:

    1.1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/) if you haven't already:

     ````{tabs}

        ```{code-tab} console Linux
        $ sudo apt-get install git
        ```

        ```{code-tab} console macOS
        $ brew install git # using Homebrew
        ```
     ````

    1.2. Clone this repository and `cd` into it:

      ```{code-block} console
      $ git clone https://github.com/npfernandes/ensemblify.git
      $ cd ensemblify
      ```

2. Create your `ensemblify_env` [conda environment](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) with all of Ensemblify's Python dependencies:

    Using the provided environment file (**recommended**):

      ````{tabs}

         ```{code-tab} console Linux
         $ conda env create -f environment_Linux.yml
         $ conda activate ensemblify_env
         ```

         ```{code-tab} console macOS
         $ conda env create -f environment_macOS.yml
         $ conda activate ensemblify_env
         ```
      ````

    <details>
    <summary> Creating the environment and manually installing the Python dependencies (<b>not recommended</b>):</summary>

      ```{code-block} console
      $ conda create --channel=conda-forge --name ensemblify_env python=3.10 MDAnalysis=2.6.1 mdtraj=1.9.9 numpy=1.26.4 pandas=2.2.2 pyarrow=13.0.0 scikit-learn=1.4.2 scipy=1.12.0 tqdm=4.66.2
      $ conda activate ensemblify_env
      (ensemblify_env) $ pip install biopython==1.81 plotly==5.23.0 pyyaml==6.0.1 "ray[default]"==2.33.0
      ```
    </details><br>

3. Install the `ensemblify` python package into your newly created environment.

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ pip install .
    ```

<!-- Alternatively, Ensemblify is available via the Python Package Index:

  ```bash
  conda activate ensemblify_env   
  pip install -U ensemblify
  ``` -->

----

## 2. Third Party Software

Each of Ensemblify's modules has different dependencies to third party software, so if you only plan on using a certain module you do not have to install software required for others. The requirements are:

- `generation` module: [PyRosetta](#pyrosetta), [FASPR](#faspr) and [PULCHRA](#pulchra).

- `conversion` module: [GROMACS](#gromacs), [Pepsi-SAXS](#pepsi-saxs) and optionally [BIFT](#bift).

- `analysis` module: no other software required.

- `reweighting` module: no other software required.

### PyRosetta
  
PyRosetta<sup>[[2]](#ref2)</sup> is a Python-based interface to the powerful Rosetta molecular modeling suite. Its functionalities are used through Ensemblify in order to generate conformational ensembles. You can install it by following these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Install the [`pyrosetta-installer`](https://pypi.org/project/pyrosetta-installer/) Python package, kindly provided by RosettaCommons, to aid in the `pyrosetta` installation:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ pip install pyrosetta-installer 
    ```

3. Use `pyrosetta-installer` to download (~ 1.6 GB) and install `pyrosetta` (note the distributed and serialization parameters):
    
    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ python -c 'import pyrosetta_installer; pyrosetta_installer.install_pyrosetta(distributed=True,serialization=True)'
    ```

4. To test your `pyrosetta` installation, you can type in a terminal:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ python -c 'import pyrosetta.distributed; pyrosetta.distributed.init()'
    ```

If this step does not produce a complaint or error, your installation has been successful.

Remember to re-activate the `ensemblify_env` conda environment each time you wish to run code that uses `pyrosetta`.

### FASPR
  
FASPR<sup>[[3]](#ref3)</sup> is an ultra-fast and accurate program for deterministic protein sidechain packing. To compile the provided FASPR source-code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the FASPR source code is located:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/FASPR-master/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/FASPR-master/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the FASPR source code:

    ````{tabs}

       ```{code-tab} console Linux
       (ensemblify_env) $ g++ -O3 --fast-math -o FASPR src/*.cpp
       ```

       ```{code-tab} console macOS
       (ensemblify_env) $ g++ -03 -fast-math -o FASPR src/*.cpp # if you get an error, remove -fast-math
       ```
    ````

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your FASPR executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set FASPR_PATH=$(realpath FASPR)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $FASPR_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your FASPR executable is located.

### PULCHRA

PULCHRA<sup>[[4]](#ref4)</sup> (PowerfUL CHain Restoration Algorithm) is a program for reconstructing full-atom protein models from reduced representations. To compile the provided PULCHRA modified source-code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```

    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the PULCHRA source code is located.
    
    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/pulchra-master/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory:
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/pulchra-master/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the PULCHRA source code:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cc -O3 -o pulchra pulchra_CHANGED.c pulchra_data.c -lm
    ```

    Do not be alarmed if some warnings show up on your screen; this is normal and they can be ignored.

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your PULCHRA executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set PULCHRA_PATH=$(realpath pulchra)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $PULCHRA_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your PULCHRA executable is located.

### GROMACS

GROMACS<sup>[[5]](#ref5)</sup> is a molecular dynamics package mainly designed for simulations of proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids.
It comes with a large selection of flexible tools for trajectory analysis and the output formats are also supported by all major analysis and visualisation packages.

To download and compile the GROMACS [source code](https://ftp.gromacs.org/gromacs/gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz) from their [website](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/current/download.html) you can follow these commands:

1. Create and navigate into your desired GROMACS installation directory, for example:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ mkdir -p ~/software/GROMACS
    $ cd ~/software/GROMACS
    ```

2. Download the GROMACS source code from their website:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ wget -O gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz https://zenodo.org/records/11148655/files/gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz?download=1
    ```

3. Follow the [GROMACS installation instructions](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/current/install-guide/index.html) to compile the GROMACS source code (this could take a while):

    ```{code-block} console
    $ tar xfz gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz
    $ cd gromacs-2024.2
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ cmake .. -DGMX_BUILD_OWN_FFTW=ON -DREGRESSIONTEST_DOWNLOAD=ON
    $ make -j $(nproc)
    $ make check
    $ sudo make install
    $ source /usr/local/gromacs/bin/GMXRC
    ```

    Environment variables that will allow Ensemblify to know where GROMACS is located will have already been added to your shell configuration file.

### PEPSI-SAXS

Pepsi-SAXS<sup>[[6]](#ref6)</sup> (Polynomial Expansions of Protein Structures and Interactions - SAXS) is an adaptive method for rapid and accurate computation of small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) profiles from atomistic protein models.

To download the Pepsi-SAXS executable from their [website](https://team.inria.fr/nano-d/software/pepsi-saxs/) you can follow these commands:

1. Create and navigate into your desired Pepsi-SAXS installation directory, for example:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ mkdir -p ~/software/Pepsi-SAXS/
    $ cd ~/software/Pepsi-SAXS/
    ```

2. Download and extract the Pepsi-SAXS executable:

    ````{tabs}

       ```{code-tab} console Linux
       $ wget -O Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip https://files.inria.fr/NanoDFiles/Website/Software/Pepsi-SAXS/Linux/3.0/Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip
       $ unzip Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip
       ```

       ```{code-tab} console macOS
       $ curl -O Pepsi-SAXS-MacOS.zip https://files.inria.fr/NanoDFiles/Website/Software/Pepsi-SAXS/MacOS/2.6/Pepsi-SAXS.zip
       $ unzip Pepsi-SAXS-MacOS.zip
       ```
    ````

3. Add an environment variable with the path to your Pepsi-SAXS executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set PEPSI_SAXS_PATH=$(realpath Pepsi-SAXS)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $PEPSI_SAXS_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your Pepsi-SAXS executable is located.

### BIFT

Bayesian indirect Fourier transformation (BIFT) of small-angle experimental data allows for an estimation of parameters that describe the data<sup>[[7]](#ref7)</sup>. Larsen *et al.* show in [[8]](#ref8) that BIFT can identify whether the experimental error in small-angle scattering data is over or underestimated. Here we use their implementation of this method to make this determination and scale the error values accordingly.

To compile the provided BIFT source code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the BIFT source code is located:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/BIFT/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/BIFT/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the BIFT source code:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ gfortran -march=native -O3 bift.f -o bift
    ```
    the `-march=native` flag may be replaced with `-m64` or `-m32`, and it may be necessary to include the `-static` flag depending on which system you are on.

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your BIFT executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set BIFT_PATH=$(realpath bift)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $BIFT_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your BIFT executable is located.

----

## 3. Tripeptide Database

If you plan on generating protein conformational ensembles using Ensemblify's `generation` module, you will need to provide the software with a dihedral angle values database.
Visit the [Tripeptide Database](database.md#-tripeptide-database) section to learn more about this database and where you can get it.

----

## References

<a id="ref2">[2]</a> S. Chaudhury, S. Lyskov and J. J. Gray, "PyRosetta: a script-based interface for implementing molecular modeling algorithms using Rosetta," *Bioinformatics*, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 689-691, Mar. 2010 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btq007)]

<a id="ref3">[3]</a> X. Huang, R. Pearce and Y. Zhang, "FASPR: an open-source tool for fast and accurate protein side-chain packing," *Bioinformatics*, vol. 36, no. 12, pp. 3758-3765, Jun. 2020 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa234)]

<a id="ref4">[4]</a> P. Rotkiewicz and J. Skolnick, "Fast procedure for reconstruction of full-atom protein models from reduced representations," *Journal of Computational Chemistry*, vol. 29, no. 9, pp. 1460-1465, Jul. 2008 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.20906)] 

<a id="ref5">[5]</a> S. Pronk, S. Páll, R. Schulz, P. Larsson, P. Bjelkmar, R. Apostolov, M.R. Shirts, and J.C. Smith et al., “GROMACS 4.5: A high-throughput and highly parallel open source molecular simulation toolkit,” *Bioinformatics*, vol. 29, no. 7, pp. 845–854, 2013 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btt055)].

<a id="ref6">[6]</a> S. Grudinin, M. Garkavenko and A. Kazennov, "Pepsi-SAXS: an adaptive method for rapid and accurate computation of small-angle X-ray scattering profiles," *Structural Biology*, vol. 73, no. 5, pp. 449-464, May 2017 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S2059798317005745)]

<a id="ref7">[7]</a> B. Vestergaard and S. Hansen, "Application of Bayesian analysis to indirect Fourier transformation in small-angle scattering," *Journal of Applied Crystallography*, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 797-804, Dec. 2006 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S0021889806035291)] 

<a id="ref8">[8]</a> A. H. Larsen and M. C. Pedersen, "Experimental noise in small-angle scattering can be assessed using the Bayesian indirect Fourier transformation," *Journal of Applied Crystallography*, vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 1281-1289, Oct. 2021 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S1600576721006877)]

Commit message:

Make GMX optional (but still recommended)

docs/source/installation.md, after:

# 🧰 Installation

## 1. Ensemblify Python Package

It is **heavily** recommended to install the `ensemblify` Python package in a dedicated virtual environment.

You can create a new virtual environment using your favorite virtual environment manager. Examples shown will use `conda`. If you want to download `conda` you can do so through their [website](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/install/index.html). We recommend [miniconda](https://www.anaconda.com/docs/getting-started/miniconda/install), a free minimal installer for `conda`.

To install the `ensemblify` Python package, you can follow these commands:

1. Get the `ensemblify` source code. To do this you:

    1.1. Install [Git](https://git-scm.com/) if you haven't already:

     ````{tabs}

        ```{code-tab} console Linux
        $ sudo apt-get install git
        ```

        ```{code-tab} console macOS
        $ brew install git # using Homebrew
        ```
     ````

    1.2. Clone this repository and `cd` into it:

      ```{code-block} console
      $ git clone https://github.com/npfernandes/ensemblify.git
      $ cd ensemblify
      ```

2. Create your `ensemblify_env` [conda environment](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) with all of Ensemblify's Python dependencies:

    Using the provided environment file (**recommended**):

      ````{tabs}

         ```{code-tab} console Linux
         $ conda env create -f environment_Linux.yml
         $ conda activate ensemblify_env
         ```

         ```{code-tab} console macOS
         $ conda env create -f environment_macOS.yml
         $ conda activate ensemblify_env
         ```
      ````

    <details>
    <summary> Creating the environment and manually installing the Python dependencies (<b>not recommended</b>):</summary>

      ```{code-block} console
      $ conda create --channel=conda-forge --name ensemblify_env python=3.10 MDAnalysis=2.6.1 mdtraj=1.9.9 numpy=1.26.4 pandas=2.2.2 pyarrow=13.0.0 scikit-learn=1.4.2 scipy=1.12.0 tqdm=4.66.2
      $ conda activate ensemblify_env
      (ensemblify_env) $ pip install biopython==1.81 plotly==5.23.0 pyyaml==6.0.1 "ray[default]"==2.33.0
      ```
    </details><br>

3. Install the `ensemblify` python package into your newly created environment.

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ pip install .
    ```

<!-- Alternatively, Ensemblify is available via the Python Package Index:

  ```bash
  conda activate ensemblify_env   
  pip install -U ensemblify
  ``` -->

----

## 2. Third Party Software

Each of Ensemblify's modules has different dependencies to third party software, so if you only plan on using a certain module you do not have to install software required for others. The requirements are:

- `generation` module: [PyRosetta](#pyrosetta), [FASPR](#faspr) and [PULCHRA](#pulchra).

- `conversion` module: [GROMACS](#gromacs) (optional), [Pepsi-SAXS](#pepsi-saxs) and [BIFT](#bift) (optional).

- `analysis` module: no other software required.

- `reweighting` module: no other software required.

### PyRosetta
  
PyRosetta<sup>[[2]](#ref2)</sup> is a Python-based interface to the powerful Rosetta molecular modeling suite. Its functionalities are used through Ensemblify in order to generate conformational ensembles. You can install it by following these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Install the [`pyrosetta-installer`](https://pypi.org/project/pyrosetta-installer/) Python package, kindly provided by RosettaCommons, to aid in the `pyrosetta` installation:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ pip install pyrosetta-installer 
    ```

3. Use `pyrosetta-installer` to download (~ 1.6 GB) and install `pyrosetta` (note the distributed and serialization parameters):
    
    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ python -c 'import pyrosetta_installer; pyrosetta_installer.install_pyrosetta(distributed=True,serialization=True)'
    ```

4. To test your `pyrosetta` installation, you can type in a terminal:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ python -c 'import pyrosetta.distributed; pyrosetta.distributed.init()'
    ```

If this step does not produce a complaint or error, your installation has been successful.

Remember to re-activate the `ensemblify_env` conda environment each time you wish to run code that uses `pyrosetta`.

### FASPR
  
FASPR<sup>[[3]](#ref3)</sup> is an ultra-fast and accurate program for deterministic protein sidechain packing. To compile the provided FASPR source-code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the FASPR source code is located:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/FASPR-master/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/FASPR-master/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the FASPR source code:

    ````{tabs}

       ```{code-tab} console Linux
       (ensemblify_env) $ g++ -O3 --fast-math -o FASPR src/*.cpp
       ```

       ```{code-tab} console macOS
       (ensemblify_env) $ g++ -03 -fast-math -o FASPR src/*.cpp # if you get an error, remove -fast-math
       ```
    ````

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your FASPR executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set FASPR_PATH=$(realpath FASPR)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $FASPR_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your FASPR executable is located.

### PULCHRA

PULCHRA<sup>[[4]](#ref4)</sup> (PowerfUL CHain Restoration Algorithm) is a program for reconstructing full-atom protein models from reduced representations. To compile the provided PULCHRA modified source-code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```

    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the PULCHRA source code is located.
    
    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/pulchra-master/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory:
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/pulchra-master/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the PULCHRA source code:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cc -O3 -o pulchra pulchra_CHANGED.c pulchra_data.c -lm
    ```

    Do not be alarmed if some warnings show up on your screen; this is normal and they can be ignored.

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your PULCHRA executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set PULCHRA_PATH=$(realpath pulchra)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $PULCHRA_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your PULCHRA executable is located.

### GROMACS

GROMACS<sup>[[5]](#ref5)</sup> is a molecular dynamics package mainly designed for simulations of proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids.
It comes with a large selection of flexible tools for trajectory analysis and the output formats are also supported by all major analysis and visualisation packages.
If you decide not to install GROMACS in your system, the Ensemblify `conversion` module will still work as intended, but will be much slower.

To download and compile the GROMACS [source code](https://ftp.gromacs.org/gromacs/gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz) from their [website](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/current/download.html) you can follow these commands:

1. Create and navigate into your desired GROMACS installation directory, for example:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ mkdir -p ~/software/GROMACS
    $ cd ~/software/GROMACS
    ```

2. Download the GROMACS source code from their website:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ wget -O gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz https://zenodo.org/records/11148655/files/gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz?download=1
    ```

3. Follow the [GROMACS installation instructions](https://manual.gromacs.org/documentation/current/install-guide/index.html) to compile the GROMACS source code (this could take a while):

    ```{code-block} console
    $ tar xfz gromacs-2024.2.tar.gz
    $ cd gromacs-2024.2
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ cmake .. -DGMX_BUILD_OWN_FFTW=ON -DREGRESSIONTEST_DOWNLOAD=ON
    $ make -j $(nproc)
    $ make check
    $ sudo make install
    $ source /usr/local/gromacs/bin/GMXRC
    ```

    Environment variables that will allow Ensemblify to know where GROMACS is located will have already been added to your shell configuration file.

### PEPSI-SAXS

Pepsi-SAXS<sup>[[6]](#ref6)</sup> (Polynomial Expansions of Protein Structures and Interactions - SAXS) is an adaptive method for rapid and accurate computation of small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) profiles from atomistic protein models.

To download the Pepsi-SAXS executable from their [website](https://team.inria.fr/nano-d/software/pepsi-saxs/) you can follow these commands:

1. Create and navigate into your desired Pepsi-SAXS installation directory, for example:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ mkdir -p ~/software/Pepsi-SAXS/
    $ cd ~/software/Pepsi-SAXS/
    ```

2. Download and extract the Pepsi-SAXS executable:

    ````{tabs}

       ```{code-tab} console Linux
       $ wget -O Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip https://files.inria.fr/NanoDFiles/Website/Software/Pepsi-SAXS/Linux/3.0/Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip
       $ unzip Pepsi-SAXS-Linux.zip
       ```

       ```{code-tab} console macOS
       $ curl -O Pepsi-SAXS-MacOS.zip https://files.inria.fr/NanoDFiles/Website/Software/Pepsi-SAXS/MacOS/2.6/Pepsi-SAXS.zip
       $ unzip Pepsi-SAXS-MacOS.zip
       ```
    ````

3. Add an environment variable with the path to your Pepsi-SAXS executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set PEPSI_SAXS_PATH=$(realpath Pepsi-SAXS)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $PEPSI_SAXS_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your Pepsi-SAXS executable is located.

### BIFT

Bayesian indirect Fourier transformation (BIFT) of small-angle experimental data allows for an estimation of parameters that describe the data<sup>[[7]](#ref7)</sup>. Larsen *et al.* show in [[8]](#ref8) that BIFT can identify whether the experimental error in small-angle scattering data is over or underestimated. Here we use their implementation of this method to make this determination and scale the error values accordingly.

To compile the provided BIFT source code, you can follow these commands:

1. Activate your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    ```
    If you have not yet created it, check the [Ensemblify Python Package](#ensemblify-python-package) section.

2. Navigate to where the BIFT source code is located:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ cd src/ensemblify/third_party/BIFT/ # assuming the cloned repository is your current working directory
    ```

    <!-- ```bash
    cd $CONDA_PREFIX/lib/python3.10/ensemblify/third_party/BIFT/
    ``` -->

3. Compile the BIFT source code:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ gfortran -march=native -O3 bift.f -o bift
    ```
    the `-march=native` flag may be replaced with `-m64` or `-m32`, and it may be necessary to include the `-static` flag depending on which system you are on.

4. Add an environment variable with the path to your BIFT executable to your `ensemblify_env` conda environment:

    ```{code-block} console
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda env config vars set BIFT_PATH=$(realpath bift)
    (ensemblify_env) $ conda deactivate
    $ conda activate ensemblify_env
    (ensemblify_env) $ echo $BIFT_PATH # to check if the variable has been set correctly
    ```

    this will allow Ensemblify to know where your BIFT executable is located.

----

## 3. Tripeptide Database

If you plan on generating protein conformational ensembles using Ensemblify's `generation` module, you will need to provide the software with a dihedral angle values database.
Visit the [Tripeptide Database](database.md#-tripeptide-database) section to learn more about this database and where you can get it.

----

## References

<a id="ref2">[2]</a> S. Chaudhury, S. Lyskov and J. J. Gray, "PyRosetta: a script-based interface for implementing molecular modeling algorithms using Rosetta," *Bioinformatics*, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 689-691, Mar. 2010 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btq007)]

<a id="ref3">[3]</a> X. Huang, R. Pearce and Y. Zhang, "FASPR: an open-source tool for fast and accurate protein side-chain packing," *Bioinformatics*, vol. 36, no. 12, pp. 3758-3765, Jun. 2020 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btaa234)]

<a id="ref4">[4]</a> P. Rotkiewicz and J. Skolnick, "Fast procedure for reconstruction of full-atom protein models from reduced representations," *Journal of Computational Chemistry*, vol. 29, no. 9, pp. 1460-1465, Jul. 2008 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.20906)] 

<a id="ref5">[5]</a> S. Pronk, S. Páll, R. Schulz, P. Larsson, P. Bjelkmar, R. Apostolov, M.R. Shirts, and J.C. Smith et al., “GROMACS 4.5: A high-throughput and highly parallel open source molecular simulation toolkit,” *Bioinformatics*, vol. 29, no. 7, pp. 845–854, 2013 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btt055)].

<a id="ref6">[6]</a> S. Grudinin, M. Garkavenko and A. Kazennov, "Pepsi-SAXS: an adaptive method for rapid and accurate computation of small-angle X-ray scattering profiles," *Structural Biology*, vol. 73, no. 5, pp. 449-464, May 2017 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S2059798317005745)]

<a id="ref7">[7]</a> B. Vestergaard and S. Hansen, "Application of Bayesian analysis to indirect Fourier transformation in small-angle scattering," *Journal of Applied Crystallography*, vol. 39, no. 6, pp. 797-804, Dec. 2006 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S0021889806035291)] 

<a id="ref8">[8]</a> A. H. Larsen and M. C. Pedersen, "Experimental noise in small-angle scattering can be assessed using the Bayesian indirect Fourier transformation," *Journal of Applied Crystallography*, vol. 54, no. 5, pp. 1281-1289, Oct. 2021 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1107/S1600576721006877)]
